{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff11\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f11\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Sans Serif;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f11\fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*
\cs17 \additive \ul\cf12 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}}{\info{\title Type IGM Pyramid }{\author Dennis Tolboe}{\operator Dennis Tolboe}{\creatim\yr1998\mo1\dy19\hr19\min10}{\revtim\yr1998\mo1\dy19\hr19\min10}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}
{\nofwords551}{\nofchars3146}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aendnotes\aftnstart0\hyphhotz0\aftnnar\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par 
\par Type IGM Pyramid .IGM
\par 
\par If, as I'm sure many of you do, you have other IGM's installed and overwriting
\par the ITEMS.REF or ITEMS.DAT would delete THEIR data, you must install the
\par following manually:
\par 
\par (ITEMS.REF)
\par 
\par ;---The Following is used by Pyramid.REF
\par @#Ankh
\par ;Ankh
\par @routine Ankh in Pyramid.REF
\par @drawmap
\par @update
\par 
\par 
\par (In the Item Editor)
\par 
\par   LORD II ITEM EDITOR  editing item (98 of 99)
\par   (A) Name of the item  : Pharaoh\rquote s Armour
\par   (B) Action string     : 
\par   (C) Used as armour?   : yes
\par   (D) Used as weapon?   : No
\par   (E) Can be sold?      : No
\par   (F) Ref, If "Usable"? : 
\par   (G) Use string        : 
\par   (H) Gold value        : 
\par   (I) Used only once?   : No
\par   (J) Breaks 1 out of   : Never breaks.
\par   (K) Description       : Old but strong (+350)
\par   (L) Weapon Strength   : 0
\par   (M) Armour Defence    : 350
\par   (N) Quest item?       : No
\par   (*) Show all items.
\par   ([) Go back an account
\par   (]) Go forward an account
\par   (Q) Quit
\par 
\par 
\par   LORD II ITEM EDITOR  editing item (97 of 99)
\par   (A) Name of the item  : Ankh
\par   (B) Action string     : 
\par   (C) Used as armour?   : No
\par   (D) Used as weapon?   : no
\par   (E) Can be sold?      : No
\par   (F) Ref, If "Usable"? : Ankh
\par   (G) Use string        : Rub the Ankh
\par   (H) Gold value        : 
\par   (I) Used only once?   : No
\par   (J) Breaks 1 out of   : Never breaks.
\par   (K) Description       : Its old.
\par   (L) Weapon Strength   : 0
\par   (M) Armour Defence    : 0
\par   (N) Quest item?       : No
\par   (*) Show all items.
\par   ([) Go back an account
\par   (]) Go forward an account
\par   (Q) Quit
\par 
\par --------------------
\par 
\par The Ankh is a transport device to go to Pyramid\rquote s Place any time they want.
\par And it\rquote s somewhat hard to find. I have some armour in it seems a little 
\par cheap but its hard to find because you can only try once a day pulse you have
\par to have 600 quest points and if they go back to try to get a second then all of the Pharaoh\rquote s armours are taken away.  The rooms in Pyramid\rquote s place are nice because they have a r
oom in where only the owner can enter in there. In the privet room there is a special transporter and a treasury.
\par 
\par When you talk to pyramid there are several things you can do like look for the items or do other things in including conduct business and tha
t was hard to do with Spring Fangs House of Wonders so I have created a .ref so you can easily change it. If you have SFHOW then do goto coquest (DO NOT RENAME IT TO QUEST)
\par It should be like this if you have SFHOW.
\par 
\par @#quest 
\par @do `p20 is 8 
\par @run quest in quest.ref
\par And if you don\rquote t it needs to be like this
\par 
\par @#quest
\par @do `p20 is 7
\par @run quest in quest.ref
\par 
\par Now there are two. refs that are named pquest.ref and psquest.ref now one of these has to be used. If you have SFHOW then rename the original to oquest or wha
t ever in case you want to get rid of my IGM then rename psquest (standing for Pyramid Spring) to quest, and hang on to pquest incase you want to get rid of SFHOW. If you don\rquote 
t have SFHOW then just rename the first quest to something and rename pquest to quest.ref. If it\rquote s a little hard to understand just e-mail me at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:Pyramid_@hotmail.com }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001500000050007900720061006d00690064005f00400068006f0074006d00610069006c002e0063006f006d000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b380000006d00610069006c0074006f003a0050007900720061006d00690064005f00400068006f00
74006d00610069006c002e0063006f006d0000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs16\ul\cf2 Pyramid_1@geocities.com}}}{.    
\par 
\par -----------------------
\par 
\par Files it creates (don't touch):
\par 
\par Pharaoh.IDF -- used to tell if a user has tried to find Armour or not
\par Py\rquote s.IDF \endash - used to see if a user has talked to the Pharaoh
\par    (Only if you install the other IGM)
\par 
\par (delete when reset game)
\par Pys.DAT -- used to tell if a user has the Pharaoh\rquote s armour
\par Ankhp.DAT -- used to tell if a user has the Ankh or not
\par Pyr4.DAT \endash - Pyramid\rquote s room
\par Pyr5.DAT \endash - Pyramid\rquote s room
\par Pyr6.DAT -\endash  Pyramid\rquote s room
\par Pyr7.DAT \endash - Pyramid\rquote s room
\par Pr4.DAT \endash - Pyramid\rquote s room Tresery
\par Pr5.DAT -- Pyramid\rquote s room Treasury
\par Pr6.DAT -- Pyramid\rquote s room Treasury
\par Py7.DAT -- Pyramid\rquote s room Treasury
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par If you have any questions, e-mail me at Pyramid_1@geocities.com or at, or at The Loose Screw BBS User name Pyramid
\par (801) 561-4780...
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f11\fs20\cgrid {
\par }}