NOTES ON OCEAN ADVENTURE 1.00 IGM FOR LORD2

Hi, this is my first IGM written for distribution!

A special note of thanks to Jim Wilson, author of Mimsic Isle IGM, for his
idea of temporarily borrowing an unused byte variable for doing bitchecks.
=============================================================================

:Possible Bugs

- I haven't tested it in multi-player node, so I hope the @BUSY and @OFFMAP
commands are used correctly.

- This IGM uses LOTS of blocks already used by other IGMs. <sigh>
Unfortunately, there's nothing I can do about it. The blocks used are the
ones dictated by the geographical necessity of creating sea lanes linking the
major ports.

- Yes, I tried incorporating the two Ansi screens directly into the .REF, and
it kept bombing out with an error message. Keeping them external and using
the @DISPLAYFILE command was the only way I could get it to work. They may be
just too darn big.

=============================================================================
:Suggestions for stuff to be changed?

-The monster stats were more or less picked out of a hat; so if anyone feels 
those should be adjusted, I have no quarrel there.

-Ditto, the final warp destination choices after defeating the Kraken were
pretty much arbitrary. If anyone has better suggestions, then by all means.

-The aftermath of the final battle now seems pretty anti-climatic. Any ideas
on how that might be improved, or made the culmination of a quest?

-Currently, the Castaway and Kraken battles are one-win only, just like the
fight with Tash. But should I change that? (I love those Ansi's!). I was
debating whether to have the Kraken battle be repeatable so that players
could use that as a central warping point.

=============================================================================
:Game Continuity Issues

-I had to remove two hotspots from the game in order to comply with the
maximum of ten hotspots per screen. Sosen Village now has only one exit (big
deal). In PortTown, I had to eliminate the random messages from the 
bystander; that was the only hotspot that wasn't indispensable.

-I deliberately chose high monster/random ratios for the screens. First for
fun, secondly because I wanted to be able to gain and lose alignment faster.
That and the large number of gems available per day were intended for players
who've completed most of the conventional game already. If anyone feels this
disturbs the continuity of the game too much, I suppose those can be toned
down.

-I didn't think making DragonTooth Island accessible would disturb the game.
Evil players can get there anyway, and good players can't get past the castle
gate. Again, let me know if anyone feels that changes the game too much.

-Wackstick users can easily cheat on getting past the checkpoints on the
docks for whether you own the pontoon boots; but it's more fun if you dont.

